FreeLearningResources/GolangBootcamp/README.md, before:

# Golang Boot Camp

This practical boot camp based on freely accessible resources will walk you through the fundamentals of software development in a golang ecosystem. This course is not an attempt to make you a master software developer or even an expert in any one of these categories of work. In fact, it is intentionally limited in scope to reduce _outputs_ and instead focus on minimum requirements to reach your first _outcome_ on a team: making a quality contribution to your team’s code base. This course will give you the tools to kick-start your efforts down that path, especially if you are new to the field or if you've historically focused on operations rather than development.

Some of these items may be familiar to you already - so skip them. Focus on what you think will give you the most value!

## Competencies

### Core Competencies

By the end of this boot camp, you should be able to affirm the following:

- [ ] I have the technical ability to take on my first programming effort for my team
    - [ ] I am capable of effectively searching the internet to attempt to answer technical questions
    - [ ] I understand Linux shell basics, including:
        - [ ] Using and searching shell tool manual pages and help functions to understand their usage, parameters, and to look at examples
        - [ ] Viewing/creating/deleting/searching files/folders across the filesystem
        - [ ] Changing permissions of files/folders across the filesystem
        - [ ] Installing packages with a package manager
        - [ ] Viewing/setting environment variables
        - [ ] Starting/stopping a program
    - [ ] I understand version control basics, including:
        - [ ] Forking repositories in GitHub
        - [ ] Creating/pushing git commits to branches
        - [ ] Creating a PR following my team’s guidelines
        - [ ] Seeing differences between commits
        - [ ] Seeing history of a repo and who made what changes when
        - [ ] Rebasing PRs
        - [ ] Reviewing PRs of others
    - [ ] I understand golang development basics, including:
        - [ ] The golang standard library
        - [ ] How to use and manipulate golang dependencies outside the standard library
        - [ ] How to research and find documentation/usage/examples of modules
        - [ ] The standard layout of golang projects
        - [ ] Common make targets and their usage in golang
        - [ ] Test Driven Development in golang
        - [ ] Golang IDE integrations, including using auto-complete, searching documentation, looking for files by name, finding function definitions and usages, and refactoring basics like renaming a function or extracting a block of code into a function

### Follow-Up Competencies

Knowing the technical side of software development will help you with your first contribution, but your specific team probably has many different ceremonies and ways of tracking work that will be different for every place you work. After you know the technical side, you should reach out to your manager and/or lead to understand your team's work process:

- [ ] I understand my team’s workflow process well enough to take on my first programming effort
    - [ ] I understand my team’s workflow basics, including:
        - [ ] Who to ask when I need additional work
        - [ ] What it means for work to be blocked, and who to tell when that happens
        - [ ] Who to ask when work is unclear or is discovered to be much more complex than originally thought
        - [ ] Where to reach out with questions when I’ve exhausted other efforts on problems
    - [ ] I understand the basics of our work tracking system (Jira/Asana/Azure DevOps/Post-its on a whiteboard/etc), including:
        - [ ] The basic flow of tickets across my team
        - [ ] Where my team’s work is tracked, and our standards for reporting work status
        - [ ] How to look at my items for the current Sprint (or other measure of time)
        - [ ] What statuses/fields/labels my team uses to track work categories and progress

## Boot Camp Schedule

Especially if you know another language outside golang, I think most people can complete this course in something like 120 hours (or ~3 weeks full time). Here's a schedule to keep you on track with your progress:

- [ ] Independence and Shell Basics
    - [ ] [Day 1](./day-01.md)
- [ ] Git Basics
    - [ ] [Day 2](./day-02.md) _coming soon!_
- [ ] Golang Basics
    - [ ] [Day 3](./day-03.md) _coming soon!_
    - [ ] [Day 4](./day-04.md) _coming soon!_
    - [ ] [Day 5](./day-05.md) _coming soon!_
    - [ ] [Day 6](./day-06.md) _coming soon!_
    - [ ] [Day 7](./day-07.md) _coming soon!_
    - [ ] [Day 8](./day-08.md) _coming soon!_
    - [ ] [Day 9](./day-09.md) _coming soon!_
    - [ ] [Day 10](./day-10.md) _coming soon!_
    - [ ] [Day 11](./day-11.md) _coming soon!_
- [ ] Golang Projects
    - [ ] [Day 12](./day-12.md) _coming soon!_
    - [ ] [Day 13](./day-13.md) _coming soon!_
    - [ ] [Day 14](./day-14.md) _coming soon!_
    - [ ] [Day 15](./day-15.md) _coming soon!_

Commit message:

Golang Boot Camp: Day 2
- Small refactor on the home page format
- Added content for IDE and version control

FreeLearningResources/GolangBootcamp/README.md, after:

# Golang Boot Camp

This practical boot camp based on freely accessible resources will walk you through the fundamentals of software development in a golang ecosystem. This course is not an attempt to make you a master software developer or even an expert in any one of these categories of work. In fact, it is intentionally limited in scope to reduce _outputs_ and instead focus on minimum requirements to reach your first _outcome_ on a team: making a quality contribution to your team’s code base. This course will give you the tools to kick-start your efforts down that path, especially if you are new to the field or if you've historically focused on operations rather than development.

Some of these items may be familiar to you already - so skip them. Focus on what you think will give you the most value!

## Competencies

### Core Competencies

By the end of this boot camp, you should be able to affirm the following:

- [ ] I have the technical ability to take on my first programming effort for my team
    - [ ] I am capable of effectively searching the internet to attempt to answer technical questions
    - [ ] I understand Linux shell basics, including:
        - [ ] Using and searching shell tool manual pages and help functions to understand their usage, parameters, and to look at examples
        - [ ] Viewing/creating/deleting/searching files/folders across the filesystem
        - [ ] Changing permissions of files/folders across the filesystem
        - [ ] Installing packages with a package manager
        - [ ] Viewing/setting environment variables
        - [ ] Starting/stopping a program
    - [ ] I understand version control basics, including:
        - [ ] Forking repositories in GitHub
        - [ ] Creating/pushing git commits to branches
        - [ ] Creating a PR following my team’s guidelines
        - [ ] Seeing differences between commits
        - [ ] Seeing history of a repo and who made what changes when
        - [ ] Rebasing PRs
        - [ ] Reviewing PRs of others
    - [ ] I understand golang development basics, including:
        - [ ] The golang standard library
        - [ ] How to use and manipulate golang dependencies outside the standard library
        - [ ] How to research and find documentation/usage/examples of modules
        - [ ] The standard layout of golang projects
        - [ ] Common make targets and their usage in golang
        - [ ] Test Driven Development in golang
        - [ ] Golang IDE integrations, including using auto-complete, searching documentation, looking for files by name, finding function definitions and usages, and refactoring basics like renaming a function or extracting a block of code into a function

### Follow-Up Competencies

Knowing the technical side of software development will help you with your first contribution, but your specific team probably has many different ceremonies and ways of tracking work that will be different for every place you work. After you know the technical side, you should reach out to your manager and/or lead to understand your team's work process:

- [ ] I understand my team’s workflow process well enough to take on my first programming effort
    - [ ] I understand my team’s workflow basics, including:
        - [ ] Who to ask when I need additional work
        - [ ] What it means for work to be blocked, and who to tell when that happens
        - [ ] Who to ask when work is unclear or is discovered to be much more complex than originally thought
        - [ ] Where to reach out with questions when I’ve exhausted other efforts on problems
    - [ ] I understand the basics of our work tracking system (Jira/Asana/Azure DevOps/Post-its on a whiteboard/etc), including:
        - [ ] The basic flow of tickets across my team
        - [ ] Where my team’s work is tracked, and our standards for reporting work status
        - [ ] How to look at my items for the current Sprint (or other measure of time)
        - [ ] What statuses/fields/labels my team uses to track work categories and progress

## Boot Camp Schedule

Especially if you know another language outside golang, I think most people can complete this course in something like 120 hours (or ~3 weeks full time). Here's a schedule to keep you on track with your progress:

- [ ] Prerequisites: Independence, Shell, IDE, and Version Control
    - [ ] [Day 1: Search and Shell Basics](./day-01.md)
    - [ ] [Day 2: IDE and Version Control (git)](./day-02.md)
- [ ] Golang Basics
    - [ ] [Day 3](./day-03.md) _coming soon!_
    - [ ] [Day 4](./day-04.md) _coming soon!_
    - [ ] [Day 5](./day-05.md) _coming soon!_
    - [ ] [Day 6](./day-06.md) _coming soon!_
    - [ ] [Day 7](./day-07.md) _coming soon!_
    - [ ] [Day 8](./day-08.md) _coming soon!_
    - [ ] [Day 9](./day-09.md) _coming soon!_
    - [ ] [Day 10](./day-10.md) _coming soon!_
    - [ ] [Day 11](./day-11.md) _coming soon!_
- [ ] Golang Projects
    - [ ] [Day 12](./day-12.md) _coming soon!_
    - [ ] [Day 13](./day-13.md) _coming soon!_
    - [ ] [Day 14](./day-14.md) _coming soon!_
    - [ ] [Day 15](./day-15.md) _coming soon!_
